today with a famous Waldorf Astoria
Hotel in New York City and we're going
to show you how to make the famous
Waldorf salad join us and get the dish
we'll show you the secrets behind
signature recipes of famous eateries and
how you can recreate them at home
what makes this salad so special I mean
where else in the world can you find a
hotel that has a salad that we've been
serving for almost a hundred years you
know it has to have something special
about it to us stood the test of time
still be as popular today as it was 100
years ago originally invented in the
late 1880s by hotel maitre d Oscar
Turkey this dish and others were
inspired by his desire to go above and
beyond to please guests to this day
turkeys legacy plays a role in the hotel
from a namesake browser II Oscars to the
widely known Waldorf salad every year
since the hotel has served roughly
10,000 of these salads to famous guests
from the Pope to President Obama we're
in the kitchen of the historic Waldorf
Astoria Hotel with executive chef David
garça lon
how does your version today stack up to
the first version that was ever created
biggest change probably from the
original is that we don't use mayonnaise
anymore we prefer to use yogurt and a
little bit of creme fraiche to make it a
bit lighter and a little bit more
healthy a little bit more modern so the
first thing we're gonna do is the
candied walnuts you can do these ahead
of time we new walnuts egg white a spice
mix of some kind to give it to some
flavor and some sugar we're going to
start with our our walnut halves and
we're gonna coat those with a little bit
of egg white could you use pecans
instead if you didn't have all that
pecans pecans are great very good candy
pecans are more sweet a bit of a richer
flavor I would say with pecans so you
don't need a lot of egg white it's
really just there to make the sugar
spice mixture stick to the walnuts we're
gonna have the sugar
add a little bit of spice mixture this
one is hop Rica cayenne fennel seeds a
little bit of coriander how spicy do you
like to make it generally you know I
wouldn't with a salad like this it's a
really light refreshing salad I wouldn't
make it too spicy
then we'll spread those out on acheing
sheet lined with parchment paper and
again you want to make sure it's one
even layer correct yeah you don't want
them stuck too much together it's not
the end of the world there you'll just
have to break them apart of it so we're
going to roast this in oven at about 350
degrees you really want to keep an eye
on it so you just want the sugar to melt
the walnuts continue to cook even after
you've taken them out of the oven so be
sure not to leave them in the oven for
too long
while the walnuts are cooking let's get
started on the dressing David what do we
need we're going to need some yogurt a
little bit of creme fraiche some lemon
juice white pepper
walnut oil and black truffle we'll start
with a little bit of creme fraiche you
can use sour cream as a great substitute
in the same amount or you could use just
yogurt with a little bit of mayonnaise
we work well also so a lot of it at our
yogurt
it's just whisk it together to combine
it okay and I'm just gonna while you're
doing that I'm just gonna squeeze in a
little bit of lemon juice so a little
bit of white pepper could you use black
pepper instead absolutely good yeah so
you're adding truffles chef's what does
that bring to the dish I will swallow
for story after all so it's a very
elegant rare expensive ingredient so
that's why we like to add it but it also
brings a very earth aromatic flavor to
that to the dish that's very unique it's
all the black truffle and the entire
building so the last thing we want to
add is a little bit of walnut oil when
we have this you want to whisk it fairly
fairly quickly so I'll pour that in if
you're anything like me you may not have
walnut oil at home chef is there any
other oil that we could use you can use
hazelnut oil would work like another nut
based oil you know truffle like a white
truffle oil would work well if you don't
have any of those just leave it out and
it'll still be a beautiful salad so now
we'll need to put the salad together
chef's how do we begin with that so the
ingredients we still need to add our
celery roots
granny smith apples Gala apples red
grapes and microgreens
okay so we want to julienne the celery
root as well as the two types of apples
we'd like to try the apple sure let's go
for it
let's watch your fingers chef what would
you recommend if you don't have a
mandolin at home you can use a sharp
knife the most important thing is to get
long thin slices so we've moved the
apples into the mixing bowl what's next
well let's pull the wall on side of the
oven so the nice and golden brown you
don't you really you want to keep it on
the color you don't want that we get too
much darker than this otherwise as you
said they'll overcook now we're going to
pour the dressing into the apples and
celery is there a method to the madness
here you want to make sure you don't put
too much in or otherwise you're out to
julienne more apples and celery it's
important to coat the all the
ingredients so to keep it from oxidizing
you don't want them to turn brown that's
what the lemon juice will do so the
dressing actually helps prevent the
apples from oxidizing that's it now
we'll play the salad how necessary is
that ring mold it's not really necessary
at all but they say we with our eyes
first so it's all about height
presentation and color that's that's why
we use the remote it's like the leaning
tower of Apple crate so we'll just
garnish the plate with some red grapes
add a bit of color some of our walnuts
and then these are microgreens you'd use
the leaves the leaves from the celery as
well really it's just for just for color
and a little bit more height that's
beautiful and there you have it a
Waldorf salad from the Waldorf Astoria
well chef all this talk is making me
really hungry
it looks delicious and I can't wait to
try it I love the nuttiness of the
walnut which are just sweet enough
combined with the Crisp Apple texture it
seems like something to be heavy but it
is very light and refreshing it's great
great first course for before your
entree
thank you so much chef David we'll see
you next time when we get the dish on
yum sugar TV
you